      INSTRUCTIONS FOR 'SUPER STAR TREK'

1. When you see "Command ?" printed, enter one of the legal
     commands (NAV, SRS, LRS, PHA, TOR, SHE, DAM, COM, OR XXX).
2. If you should type in an illegal command, you'll get a short
     list of the legal commands printed out.
3. Some commands require you to enter data (for example, the
     'NAV' command comes back with 'Course (1-9) ?'.)  If you
     type in illegal data (like negative numbers), then command
     will be aborted.

     The galaxy is divided into an 8 X 8 quadrant grid,
and each quadrant is further divided into an 8 X 8 sector grid.

     You will be assigned a starting point somewhere in the
galaxy to begin a tour of duty as commander of the starship
Enterprise; your mission: to seek and destroy the fleet of
Klingon warships which are menacing the United Federation of
Planets.

     You have the following commands available to you as captain
of the starship Enterprise:

NAV command = Warp Engine Control
     Course is in a circular numerical      4  3  2
     vector arrangement as shown             . . .
     integer and real values may be           ...
     used.  (Thus course 1.5 is half-     5 ---*--- 1
     way between 1 and 2.                     ...
                                             . . .
     Values may approach 9.0, which         6  7  8
     itself is equivalent to 1.0
                                            COURSE
     One warp factor is the size of
     one quadrant.  Therefore, to get
     from quadrant 6,5 to 5,5, you WOULD
     use course 3, warp factor 1.

SRS command = Short Range Sensor Scan
     Shows you a scan of your present quadrant.

     Symbology on your sensor screen is as follows:
        <*> = Your starship's position
        +K+ = Klingon battle cruiser
        >!< = Federation starbase (refuel/repair/re-arm here!)
         *  = Star

     A condensed 'status report' will also be presented.

LRS command = Long Range Sensor Scan
     Shows conditions in space for one quadrant on each side
     of the Enterprise (which is in the middle of the scan).
     The scan is coded in the form ###, where the units digit
     is the number of stars, the tens digit is the number of
     starbases, and the hundreds digit is the number of
     Klingons.

     Example - 207 = 2 Klingons, No starbases, & 7 stars.

PHA command = Phaser Control
     Allows you to destroy the Klingon battle cruisers by
     zapping them with suitably large units of energy to
     deplete their shield power.  (Remember, Klingons have
     phasers, too!)

TOR command = Photon Torpedo Control
     Torpedo course is the same as used in warp engine control.
     If you hit the Klingon vessel, he is destroyed and
     cannot fire back at you.  If you miss, you are subject to
     his phaser fire.  In either case, you are also subject to
     the phaser fire of all other Klingons in the quadrant.

     The library-computer (COM command) has an option to
     compute torpedo trajectory for you (Option 2).

SHE command = Shield Control
     Defines the number of energy units to be assigned to the
     shields.  Energy is taken from total ship's energy.  Note
     that the status display total energy includes shield energy.

DAM command = Damage Control Report
     Gives the state of repair of all devices.  Where a negative
     'state of repair' shows that the device is temporarily
     damaged.

COM command = Library-Computer
     The library-computer contains six options:
     Option 0 = Cumulative Galactic Record
        This option shows computer memory of the results of all
        previous short and long range sensor scans.
     Option 1 = Status Report
        This option shows the number of Klingons, Stardates,
        and starbases remaining in the game.
     Option 2 = Photon Torpedo Data
        Which gives directions and distance from the Enterprise
        to all Klingons in your quadrant.
     Option 3 = Starbase Nav Data
        This option gives direction and distance to any
        starbase within your quadrant.
     Option 4 = Direction/Distance Calculator
        This option allows you to enter coordinates for
        direction/distance calculations.
     Option 5 = Galactic Region Name Map
        This option prints the names of the sixteen major
        galactic regions referred to in the game.

